How well do you handle your emotions?
Are you at the mercy of them
or can you use them to your advantage?
And what about when it comes to others?
Can you recognize how the people around you are feeling?
Leaders with high emotional intelligence
are skilled at identifying, understanding,
and managing their emotions and the emotions of others.
They can tune into how they're feeling,
and regulate their reactions.
And with that self-understanding,
they can also better recognize and respond
to the feelings of others.
It's an important skill to have,
so let's take a look at the two categories
of emotional intelligence and why they're necessary
for leadership success.
The first category of emotional intelligence
is personal competence, which refers
to how well you recognize and manage your emotions.
It's made up of three elements:
self-awareness, self-regulation, and self-motivation.
Self-awareness is being aware of your emotions,
it's recognizing your feelings,
understanding why they're happening,
and noticing how your thoughts and behaviors are affected.
Self-regulation refers to how well you handle your emotions.
It revolves around self-control, thinking before you act,
and maintaining resilience during difficult times.
Finally, self-motivation refers to your personal drive.
It's using your emotions as a mobilizing tool
to ensure you stick to your goals.
The second category of emotional intelligence
is social competence which helps you
build strong social relationships
and create meaningful interactions.
Social competence is defined as how well you recognize
and manage the emotions of others.
It involves two elements, empathy and social skills.
Empathy is understanding another's emotions,
it's looking outside your perspective
and seeing things from another's point of view.
Social skills refer to how well you interact with others,
it's taking your understanding of another's feelings
and using that knowledge to create positive interactions.
So, emotional intelligence is just as much
about knowing yourself as it is about knowing others
and it plays an essential role
in the quality of your leadership.
Here are four leadership benefits
of high emotional intelligence.
The first leadership benefit of emotional intelligence
is that you're more likely to make objective decisions.
Emotion-filled decisions are often shortsighted and risky,
but if you can recognize your feelings,
you'll know when they're getting in the way of your actions.
Second, you can expect fewer blind spots
as you'll be more aware of your internal
and external reality.
When it comes to you, you'll think before you act
and be less likely to jump to conclusions.
And when it comes to others,
you'll notice when employees are struggling
and you'll know how to give them the support they need.
Third, your communication will be more effective,
you'll know how to control your emotions,
communicate constructive messages,
engage your staff's understanding,
plus when listening to your team,
you'll observe their reactions and be more likely
to understand where they're coming from.
Finally, a leader with high emotional intelligence
can improve workplace morale.
You can better gauge how subordinates are feeling
and address those emotions with kindness and warmth.
You'll understand the nuances of various situations
and bring positivity into the workplace,
thus boosting employee happiness.
To succeed as a leader,
you need more than just intellectual smarts,
you also need emotional intelligence.
So, keep the benefits in mind
and make an effort to start tuning into your emotions,
practicing self-regulation, and finding ways
to cultivate internal motivation.
Then, look outside yourself to develop empathy
and improve your social skills.
Follow these tips and you can reap long-term rewards
both inside and outside the office.